README.md, before:

# vignette-image-classification-cnn

Vignette on implementing distribution-based clustering using cell type data; created as a class project for PSTAT197A in Fall 2025.

## Contributors: 
- Nini Yen
- Oscar Odonnell
- Kaitlyn Chihaoui
- Johanna Jansen

## Vignette abstract: 

Our vignette explores the topic of image classification using CNNs. CNN stands for Convolutional Neural Networks, which have the ability to analyze and derive meaningful information from images. We will utilize a dataset of 6,500 butterfly images for 75 different classes. The outcome is to demonstrate the use of CNNs for image classificationtrain and train an image classification model to identify the class of any given butterfly image.

## Repository contents: 
- `data`:
    - Testing_set.csv: contains unlabeled images to be predicted
    - Training_set.csv: contains names of images and the label
-   `results` contains the primary vignette document teaching our methods/tools
-   `scripts` contains the code that produces the example outputs shown in the primary document

## Reference list:
ML Practicum: Image Classification. (n.d.). Google for Developers. https://developers.google.com/machine-learning/practica/image-classification/convolutional-neural-networks

GeeksforGeeks. (2025, August 5). Image Classification using CNN. GeeksforGeeks. https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/machine-learning/image-classifier-using-cnn/

## Instructions on use/Contributing to the repository
A typical README file would also contain instructions on use and instructions on contributing to the repository.

Commit message:

Update usage and contribution instructions in README
Clarified instructions for using and contributing to the repository.

README.md, after:

# vignette-image-classification-cnn

Vignette on implementing distribution-based clustering using cell type data; created as a class project for PSTAT197A in Fall 2025.

## Contributors: 
- Nini Yen
- Oscar Odonnell
- Kaitlyn Chihaoui
- Johanna Jansen

## Vignette abstract: 

Our vignette explores the topic of image classification using CNNs. CNN stands for Convolutional Neural Networks, which have the ability to analyze and derive meaningful information from images. We will utilize a dataset of 6,500 butterfly images for 75 different classes. The outcome is to demonstrate the use of CNNs for image classificationtrain and train an image classification model to identify the class of any given butterfly image.

## Repository contents: 
- `data`:
    - Testing_set.csv: contains unlabeled images to be predicted
    - Training_set.csv: contains names of images and the label
-   `results` contains the primary vignette document teaching our methods/tools
-   `scripts` contains the code that produces the example outputs shown in the primary document

## Reference list:
ML Practicum: Image Classification. (n.d.). Google for Developers. https://developers.google.com/machine-learning/practica/image-classification/convolutional-neural-networks

GeeksforGeeks. (2025, August 5). Image Classification using CNN. GeeksforGeeks. https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/machine-learning/image-classifier-using-cnn/

## Instructions on use/Contributing to the repository
This repository is a student group project created for PSTAT197A. If wanting to reproduce the example analysis and train the model, clone the repository. If you would like to contribute, we encourage you to do so in separate files. For example, contributors can train the existing model with different paramaters or experiment with a new cnn model, both in separate files or folders. Adding annotations or explanations of the changes made would be helpful for the main/other contributions as well.
